GWEN IFILL: Good evening. I'm
Gwen Ifill.
Judy Woodruff is on assignment.
On the "NewsHour" tonight:
BARACK OBAMA, President of the
United States:
For many years, it's been clear
that the detention
facility at Guantanamo Bay
doesn't advance
our national security.
GWEN IFILL: President Obama
gives Congress
a plan to shut down the
controversial Guantanamo
Bay detention center, and
Congress pushes
back.
Also ahead: Republicans get
ready for tonight's
caucuses in Nevada, one week out
from Super
Tuesday.
And the first in our two-part
series on how
Los Angeles is working to
improve its special
education programs after a court
case exposed
a broken system nearly 20 years
ago.
SHARYN HOWELL, Special Education
Director,
Los Angeles Unified School
District: What
we have been working on for a
number of years
is to convince people that
students with disabilities
are all of our responsibility.
They don't
belong to the Division of
Special Education.
GWEN IFILL: All that and more on
tonight's
"PBS NewsHour."
(BREAK)
GWEN IFILL: From President Obama
today came
a fresh appeal to -- quote --
"close a chapter
at Guantanamo." From Republicans
came an outright
refusal. It all focused on a
fight that's
gone at least as long as he's
been president.
BARACK OBAMA, President of the
United States:
For many years, it's been clear
that the detention
facility at Guantanamo Bay
doesn't advance
our national security. It
undermines it.
GWEN IFILL: For the president,
it may be his
final chance to keep a 2008
campaign promise:
shutting down the military
prison at Guantanamo.
BARACK OBAMA: It's
counterproductive to our
fight against terrorists,
because they use
it as propaganda in their
efforts to recruit.
It drains military resources,
with nearly
$450 million spent last year
alone to keep
it running, and more than $200
million in
additional costs needed to keep
it open going
forward for less than 100
detainees.
GWEN IFILL: At its peak in 2003,
Guantanamo
held 680 detainees. Today, 91
prisoners remain
at the detention facility; 35
are expected
to be transferred out by this
summer.
The president's new proposal
would send the
remaining detainees to an
unspecified facility
inside the United States. It
speaks of 13
potential sites, including
civilian prisons
and military bases, but makes no
recommendation.
BARACK OBAMA: The notion of
having terrorists
held in the United States,
rather than in
some distant place, can be
scary. But part
of my message to the American
people here
is, we're already holding a
bunch of really
dangerous terrorists here in the
United States,
because we threw the book at
them, and there
have been no incidents. We have
managed it
just fine.
GWEN IFILL: Then-President
George W. Bush
first ordered foreign terror
suspects held
at Guantanamo after 9/11.
BARACK OBAMA: Guantanamo will be
closed no
later than one year from now.
GWEN IFILL: But in one of his
first acts as
president, Mr. Obama signed an
executive order
to shut it down. Today, he
pointed out that,
early on, the decision appeared
to have bipartisan
backing.
BARACK OBAMA: My predecessor,
President Bush,
to his credit, said he wanted to
close it.
It was one of the few things
that I and my
Republican opponent, Senator
John McCain,
agreed on.
GWEN IFILL: But McCain and
others have never
backed this president's
solution, and have
even passed a law that would bar
moving detainees
to American soil.
Senate Majority Leader Mitch
McConnell underscored
that point today.
SEN. MITCH MCCONNELL (R-KY),
Majority Leader:
We will review President Obama's
plan. But
since it includes bringing
dangerous terrorists
to facilities in U.S.
communities, he should
know that the bipartisan will of
Congress
has already been expressed
against that proposal.
GWEN IFILL: Presidential
candidates also weighed
in. Democratic Senator Bernie
Sanders welcomed
the president's announcement.
And Hillary
Clinton has said she too
supports shutting
the prison down.
But Republicans, including
front-runner Donald
Trump, roundly rejected the
plan.
DONALD TRUMP (R), Presidential
Candidate:
This morning, I watched
President Obama talking
about Gitmo, right, Guantanamo
Bay, which,
by the way, which, by the way,
we are keeping
open, which we are keeping open.
(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)
DONALD TRUMP: And we're going to
load it up
with some bad dudes, believe me.
We're going
to load it up.
GWEN IFILL: The president said
he is clear-eyed
about the tough odds he faces
getting Congress
to agree with him. But the White
House has
not ruled out trying to close
Guantanamo through
executive action.
We will hear from senators on
both sides of
the issue after the news
summary.
In the day's other news: Senate
Republicans
made it official: There will be
no hearings
and no vote on anyone President
Obama nominates
for the Supreme Court. Majority
Leader Mitch
McConnell said nearly all of his
members support
that decision, and he said that
he won't even
agree to meet with a nominee.
The announcement gave new life
to the partisan
war of words that has erupted
over the future
of the court.
SEN. JOHN CORNYN (R), Texas:
It's up to the
American people in this next
election, no
matter who they choose, to make
the nomination
for this important seat on the
Supreme Court.
Justice Scalia served for 30
years. So, this
clearly extends far beyond
President Obama's
term of office.
SEN. CHARLES SCHUMER (D), New
York: Today's
effort by Senator McConnell to
get every member
of the Judiciary Committee to
sign a letter
saying they won't do hearings is
an effort
to make this issue go away. It
won't. The
American people won't let it. We
won't let
it.
GWEN IFILL: President Obama has
said he still
plans to nominate a replacement
for the late
Justice Antonin Scalia, and he's
urged the
Senate to act.
Scalia died this month in Texas,
and the Associated
Press reported today he had
coronary artery
disease, diabetes and other
ailments. Texas
officials relied on those
findings, by the
Supreme Court's physician, in
deciding against
an autopsy.
There may be new evidence that
the Zika virus
can be transmitted through
sexual contact.
The Centers for Disease Control
and Prevention
said today it's investigating 14
possible
cases in the U.S. All involve
women whose
male partners recently returned
from places
affected by Zika. The virus has
been linked
to birth defects, and is
typically spread
by mosquitoes.
The Syrian government and its
main opposition
group signed on today to a
proposed cease-fire,
but with conditions. Damascus
said it will
continue attacking terror
groups, and the
rebels insisted on an end to
sieges and bombardments.
Meanwhile, at a Senate hearing,
Secretary
of State John Kerry acknowledged
skepticism
that any truce will hold. But he
said this
is the only viable diplomatic
option.
JOHN KERRY, U.S. Secretary of
State: It may
be too late to keep it as a
whole Syria if
we wait much longer. So that's
what at issue
here, and I'm not going to vouch
for this.
I'm not going to say this
process is sure
to work, because I don't know.
But I know
that this is the best way to try
to end the
war, and it's the only
alternative before
us if indeed we're going to have
a political
settlement.
GWEN IFILL: The United States
and Russia proposed
the cease-fire. Kerry said the
U.S. is considering
plan B options if it fails.
The flood of migrants and
refugees pouring
out of Syria and other countries
and into
Europe has reached dramatic new
levels. The
International Organization for
Migration said
today more than 110,000 people
have landed
in Greece and Italy just since
January 1.
It took six months to reach that
total last
year.
Top U.S. military and diplomatic
officials
fired new criticism today at
China's actions
in the South China Sea. The
commander of U.S.
forces in the Pacific told
senators that Beijing
is seeking hegemony over Eastern
Asia. And
he said newly installed missile
batteries
and radar systems on disputed
islands pose
a serious threat.
ADM. HARRY HARRIS, Commander,
U.S. Pacific
Command: In my opinion, China is
clearly militarizing
the South China Sea, and you
would have to
believe in a flat Earth to think
otherwise.
These are actions that are
changing, in my
opinion, the operational
landscape in the
South China Sea.
GWEN IFILL: Secretary of State
Kerry also
complained of militarization by
China. Later,
he met with the visiting Chinese
foreign minister.
The price of oil headed south
again today,
after gains in recent days, and
Wall Street
went down with it. The Dow Jones
industrial
average lost nearly 190 points
to close at
16431. The Nasdaq fell 67
points, and the
S&P 500 gave up 24.
And chocolate maker Mars has
issued a candy
recall, after finding bits of
plastic in a
Snickers bar in Germany. The
recall includes
Snickers, as well as Milky Way
and Mars bars,
among others. It covers 55
countries, including
Germany, but the company didn't
specify all
of the other countries affected.
Still to come on the "NewsHour":
the future
of the Guantanamo Bay detention
center; Nevada
votes in the last GOP contest
before Super
Tuesday; alarming new
predictions on rising
sea levels; and much more.
President Obama's pledge to
close the Guantanamo
Bay detention center faced
immediate roadblocks
on Capitol Hill today.
For two views on that debate, we
turn first
to Republican Senator Cory
Gardner of Colorado,
one of the states where the
administration
has considered building a
replacement prison.
He joins us from Capitol Hill.
Senator Gardner, is this plan,
the president's
plan, a nonstarter for you?
SEN. CORY GARDNER (R), Colorado:
Well, I think
it's not obstruction from the
Capitol Hill
that the president is facing.
It's own law
that he signed that he's facing,
a law that
clearly states no dollars shall
be expended
on the transfer or to assist in
the transfer
of Guantanamo Bay detainees from
Gitmo to
the United States.
GWEN IFILL: So, your objection
is not to the
closure of Guantanamo, per se,
but to the
shifting of the detainees to
somewhere else?
SEN. CORY GARDNER: Well, I think
there's two
separate questions.
I think Guantanamo Bay is a
tailor-made facility
for terrorists, and that's where
they should
stay. I also recognize that the
law the president
signed just last month, late
last year, fully
states, clearly states that the
president
shall not spend money to assist
in the transfer
-- transfer. So, their own law
-- the very
law that he signed prohibits his
actions of
transfer.
GWEN IFILL: So, what changed in
this debate,
for people who have been
watching it, between
what President Bush believed
when he left
office and what President Obama
is trying
to do now?
SEN. CORY GARDNER: Well, I can't
speak for
anybody else, but I was in the
state legislature
in Colorado, and I was concerned
about terrorists
being transferred then from
Guantanamo Bay
to Colorado.
I made it very clearly, as a
state legislator
during the presidency of George
W. Bush, that
there could be this transfer.
And so I have
long held the view that we
should keep the
Guantanamo Bay terrorists in
Guantanamo Bay,
and not in our backyards in
Colorado.
GWEN IFILL: Well, let's talk a
little bit
about the price tag, because
taxpayers want
to know about that. It costs
about $445 million
to keep Guantanamo Bay open, to
maintain it.
It would cost $475 million,
according to the
price tag the president put out
today, to
build a new facility. Doesn't it
make more
sense just fiscally to try to
build something
new?
SEN. CORY GARDNER: I think
there's a lot of
ways that this president could
cut spending.
And if the president wants to
cut spending,
then we can start cutting
billions of dollars
across federal agencies in
duplicative, wasteful
spending.
But for this president to say
that he's going
the hide behind fiscal
responsibility, and
that's what he wants to close
Obama -- close
Guantanamo Bay for, I think
that's just a
misnomer. I think he's just
trying to throw
a red herring out there while
he's fulfilling
a red -- a campaign pledge.
GWEN IFILL: What he says is a
red herring
is what you suggested before,
which is that
there's recidivism, that there
is worry about
security if you were to take the
remaining
prisoners and bring them to this
-- to our
soil.
Do you know -- what can you tell
me about
past evidence that this is true,
that this
exists?
SEN. CORY GARDNER: Well, I think
there are
evidence -- there is evidence of
people leaving
Guantanamo Bay, going back on to
the battlefield.
There is a recidivist count that
we have seen,
and it's well-documented.
I have also heard from law
enforcement officials,
though. It's not just me. It's
not just the
Coloradans I interact with each
and every
day. It's law enforcement. It's
their locally
elected sheriffs. Over 40
sheriffs in Colorado
have written a letter to the
president of
the United States saying, don't
bring these
Guantanamo Bay detainees to
Colorado.
Don't bring terrorists back to
the state.
I have heard from federal law
enforcement
in Colorado who are very
concerned about what
impact this would have on local
communities.
And so it's not just something
that a Republican
or Democrat is saying. It's what
we're hearing
from law enforcement. It's what
from people at town meetings and
tele-town
halls.
People are very concerned about
the impact
this would have on their
community and their
safety.
GWEN IFILL: Some of the
president's defenders
say that he should use executive
action to
force this to happen, that, in
fact, it's
unconstitutional for Congress to
stop the
president from deciding where
our military
assets should be deployed. What
do you say
to that?
SEN. CORY GARDNER: Well, again,
I think Congress
has a right, as we did, passed a
law, the
president signed it, to state
that no money
shall be expended. We have the
power of the
purse. This is something the
president cannot
overcome.
If he tries to do it, this will
be -- this
will end up in court, spending
millions of
dollars that he's talking about
saving now
on a costly court battle, all
because he wants
to fulfill a campaign pledge.
Look, the president
didn't put forward a serious
plan today. He
put forward eight pages worth of
a document.
The iPhone user agreement is
longer than eight
pages. The plan that he put
forward to close
Guantanamo Bay is less detailed
than an iPhone
user agreement. I think that
speaks to what
the president is trying to do
with more of
a talking-point document than an
actual plan.
GWEN IFILL: Senator Gardner,
while I have
you, let me ask you about
something else that
happened on Capitol Hill today
that goes to
this question of presidential
prerogative,
I guess.
And it's about the naming of a
Supreme Court
justice or a nominating --
nomination of a
Supreme Court justice to succeed
Antonin Scalia.
Your party leader, Mitch
McConnell, and the
head of the Judiciary Committee
have both
said that they will not only not
have hearings,
but they won't even meet with
anybody the
president sends.
If the president were to
nominate a judge
from Colorado, would you give
them the courtesy
of a meeting?
SEN. CORY GARDNER: Well, look, I
think the
next president ought to choose
the Supreme
Court nominee. And I think that
is only fair
to the nominee themselves.
And I think that is only fair to
the integrity
of the Supreme Court. Now, this
is a very
serious issue. And I think it's
what Joe Biden
stated in 1992, what Chuck
Schumer stated
in 2007. The next president
ought to be making
this decision.
GWEN IFILL: But would you
personally refuse
to meet any nominee, even if
they were from
your state?
SEN. CORY GARDNER: Well, again,
I think this
nominee should be chosen by the
American people.
And so I would like to make sure
that the
next president gets the
opportunity to make
that decision.
GWEN IFILL: I guess we will
leave that there,
then.
Senator Cory Gardner of
Colorado, thank you
very much.
SEN. CORY GARDNER: Thanks for
having me, Gwen.
GWEN IFILL: And now we turn to a
member of
the Democratic leadership,
Senator Dick Durbin
of Illinois.
Senator Durbin, I know you heard
what Senator
Gardner just had to say. Is what
the president
proposed today, does it have a
prayer?
SEN. RICHARD DURBIN (D),
Illinois: Well, it
appears that the Republican
reaction to Guantanamo
is virtually the same reaction
to the Supreme
Court nomination. They have just
said they
wouldn't consider it.
Think about this. We have had
about 800 detainees
at Guantanamo since 9/11. Five
hundred of
them were released and
transferred by President
Bush, 500 of the 800. President
Obama has
released or transferred 147.
There are 91 left. We are
spending $5 million
a year to keep these 91
prisoners at Guantanamo.
For what reason? We have over
500 convicted
terrorists in federal prisons
across America.
GWEN IFILL: Well, let me ask you
the same
question I just tried with
Senator Gardner,
which is, what is different now
than happened
when Senator -- when President
Bush, George
W. Bush, said he wanted to close
Guantanamo?
What is the different -- what
makes the difference?
SEN. RICHARD DURBIN: Well,
Senator McCain
challenged the administration,
the White House,
come up with a plan on what you
do with these
detainees.
The president is trying to meet
that with
this proposal today. Now, the
details have
been left out in terms of where
it might be,
for obvious reasons. But I
think, ultimately,
that this is an nonstarter for
the Republicans
in Congress.
Just like the Supreme Court
nominee, they
don't want any part of it. They
don't want
to discuss it.
GWEN IFILL: But isn't the where
it might be
kind of a key detail?
SEN. RICHARD DURBIN: It's an
important part
of it.
But keep in mind, if these
prisoners, detainees,
are brought back to the United
States and
tried in our courts, they would
join, as I
said earlier, 500 convicted
terrorists currently
serving time in federal prisons.
There's been
no incidents of an escape from
the supermax
prisons, for example, across the
United States.
So, it isn't a question of
safety.
I have to ask my fiscally
conservative Republican
friends, do you really think
it's right to
spend $5 million a year on each
detainee,
so that you can beat your chests
and have
bragging rights about how tough
we are?
GWEN IFILL: So, is this a moral
fight we're
witnessing, or a practical
fight, or neither?
SEN. RICHARD DURBIN: Well, I
think what the
president has said -- and I
agree with -- Guantanamo
has become a very negative
symbol of the United
States.
You see over and over again in
propaganda
films being used by terrorists
those depictions
of the early detainees in their
orange jumpsuits.
That is the sort of thing that
inflames many
people. The president is trying
to put an
end to that problem and that
issue. And he's
trying to do it with the help of
Congress,
but, unfortunately, the
Republicans don't
want any part of it.
GWEN IFILL: Well, what seems to
inflame people
-- politicians domestically is
the idea that
the president is leaving open
the possibility
of using executive action to
force this action.
How do you argue that that is
even necessary
or constitutional?
SEN. RICHARD DURBIN: I wouldn't
assume that.
You know, I think that's taking
it to an extreme
by some. The president came
through and said
to Congress, join me in doing
this together.
We have seen the reaction from
everybody involved.
They don't want to join the
president either
to fill the Supreme Court
nomination or to
deal with Guantanamo.
GWEN IFILL: If these -- these
folks are to
be released from an island
prison, why not
-- why continue to detain them
at all, if
they're worthy of release?
SEN. RICHARD DURBIN: Because
some of them
are dangerous. And some of them
should not
be released.
About 35 of 91 remaining, the
president believes
can be safely transferred to
another country,
just as President Bush did, just
as President
Obama did. But some of them are
too dangerous.
They need to be tried. They need
to be incarcerated.
We need to keep our country
safe.
The president is not saying turn
them all
loose at all. He's very careful
in choosing
those that could be a danger to
the United
States.
GWEN IFILL: Is the president
suggesting actually
closing Guantanamo, or merely --
or just moving
the problem elsewhere?
If the concern about
international concerns
about our treatment of these
prisoners is
the real one, why wouldn't those
concerns
continue to exist if this
supermax prison
was built in your home state,
even though
that's been ruled out,
apparently?
SEN. RICHARD DURBIN: Guantanamo
is a symbol.
And much as we may not like,
that it's being
used against us. And the
president has said
that over and over again. What
he said is,
keep America safe. Detain these
prisoners
where they can be held safely,
but don't continue
to spend $5 million a year per
prisoner to
maintain Guantanamo.
GWEN IFILL: I do have to ask you
what I asked
-- ended with Senator Gardner,
which is this
decision by the Republican
leadership not
to hold hearings, not to even
hold meetings
with anyone the president
nominates.
This has never happened before.
What's your
reaction to it?
SEN. RICHARD DURBIN: There is no
constitutional
precedent for what the
Republicans announced
today.
Not only did they say, we won't
consider the
president's nominee, we won't
have hearing,
we won't have a vote. Senator
McConnell, the
Republican leader, said, "I
won't even meet
with this nominee."
That's never happened before in
history. The
Constitution, which we have
sworn to uphold,
is very clear when it comes to
Article 2,
Section 2. The president shall
appoint a nominee
to fill a vacancy on the Supreme
Court. And
the Senate shall, by advice and
consent, vote
on that nominee.
Those are not vague words.
They're words that
impose a responsibility on the
Senate, which
the Republican leader is
ignoring.
GWEN IFILL: And we will be
following that
story very closely, of course.
Senator Dick Durbin of Illinois,
thank you
very much.
SEN. RICHARD DURBIN: Thank you
too.
Now to the campaign trail, where
the men and
woman who would be president are
in the midst
of a critical week.
And as political director Lisa
Desjardins
reports, they have already
embarked on the
all-important hunt for
convention delegates.
LISA DESJARDINS: If anything,
the war of words
between Ted Cruz and Donald
Trump has heated
up ahead of tonight's GOP
caucuses in Nevada.
The charge from Cruz today, in
Fernley, Nevada:
that Trump can't be trusted.
SEN. TED CRUZ (R-TX),
Presidential Candidate:
Look, I frankly don't care what
position Donald
decides to support today or
tomorrow or the
next day. They change every day.
I don't care
what they are. But pick one and
defend it
and don't pretend, whenever
people suddenly
point out what you said, oh,
never mind.
LISA DESJARDINS: But in Sparks,
Nevada today,
the front-runner kept up his
attacks, that
Cruz is the dishonest one.
DONALD TRUMP (R), Presidential
Candidate:
He's like a little baby, soft,
weak, little
baby, by comparison. But, for
lying, he's
the best I have ever seen.
LISA DESJARDINS: Beyond charge
and countercharge,
the fight increasingly has a new
focus, the
only race that matters, the
delegate count,
where Trump has a big lead.
After the three
contests so far, he's amassed 67
delegates,
according to the Associated
Press. That's
far shy of the 1,237 needed to
win the nomination,
but it puts him well ahead of
his two closest
rivals, Cruz and Florida senator
Marco Rubio.
Rubio, though, is now riding a
wave of Republican
endorsements. And in his final
pitch to Nevadans
today, he stressed his ability
to unify the
party and the country.
SEN. MARCO RUBIO (R-FL),
Presidential Candidate:
If you make me president of the
United States,
I'm not going to tell everyone
is going to
agree with me. That doesn't even
exist in
my home.
(LAUGHTER)
SEN. MARCO RUBIO: I am telling
you that I
will never divide you against
each other to
win an election.
(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)
LISA DESJARDINS: As for the
Democrats, the
name of their game is also the
delegate count.
After their first three races,
Hillary Clinton
and Bernie Sanders are just
about even in
delegates earned from votes,
again according
to AP analysis.
But add the superdelegates.
Those are Democratic
Party leaders who get an
automatic convention
vote. They have gone heavily to
Clinton so
far, giving her a whopping
overall delegate
lead.
Sanders is pressing ahead with
delegate-rich
Super Tuesday on the horizon,
his first stop
today, one of the states that
will vote on
March 1, Virginia.
SEN. BERNIE SANDERS (VT-I),
Presidential Candidate:
All over this country, including
Virginia,
we are closing, closing, closing
that gap.
And with your help, we are going
to win here
in Virginia.
(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)
HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (D),
Presidential Candidate:
This is Johnson Controls. When
the auto industry
was going under...
LISA DESJARDINS: Clinton, too,
was looking
toward the Super Tuesday states,
making a
splash on Minnesota's airwaves,
the target,
a Wisconsin company that she
says moved profits
out of the U.S. to dodge taxes.
HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON: It's an
outrage. If
I'm president, when companies
walk out on
America, they will pay a price.
LISA DESJARDINS: Clinton and
Sanders make
back-to-back appearances tonight
at a CNN
town hall, before facing off in
the South
Carolina primary on Saturday.
For the "PBS NewsHour," I'm Lisa
Desjardins.
GWEN IFILL: Stay with us.
Coming up on the "NewsHour":
successes and
hurdles in improving special
education; how
states are working to fight
opioid abuse;
and pushing boundaries through
modern dance.
But, first, a trio of new
studies provide
new alarm about rising sea
levels, and the
prospect of further flooding
along the coasts.
Among them, seas rose faster
during the past
century than at any point in the
last 2,800
years.
Hari Sreenivasan is here with
more on the
story.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Scientists say
this is more
definitive proof that human
actions are contributing
to sea level rise. Already,
coastal cities
like Charleston, South Carolina,
and Miami,
Florida, for example, are facing
more flood
days than in decades past.
The global climate conversation
is working
toward keeping temperature rise
limited to
two degrees Celsius, and even
under that scenario,
as this animation shows, cities
like Washington,
D.C., and its well-known
landmarks could look
very different one day, albeit
several hundred
years in the future.
One study estimated that sea
rise level could
be as much as four feet higher
by the end
of this century under more dire
scenarios.
Benjamin Strauss is with Climate
Central,
a research organization that
worked on some
of this.
So, Benjamin, when you see your
graphs at
the very end of it, there's this
almost hockey
stick effect. What is it that
caused that
acceleration of sea level rise?
BENJAMIN STRAUSS, Climate
Central: The sea
level is extremely sensitive to
global temperature.
And by burning fossil fuels and
putting carbon
in the atmosphere, we have
heated up the planet
a great deal over the last
century.
HARI SREENIVASAN: So, how do we
know in these
models -- how do you build these
models to
figure out what sea level rise
was like going
back 2,000 years? There wasn't
somebody with
a stick saying, here it is at
2.5 feet, here
it is at three.
BENJAMIN STRAUSS: Yes, it's
true.
So, there was a lot of detective
work involved.
Scientific teams around the
world have been
studying coastal marshes, taking
cores, looking
for clues about where things
grew, at what
times. And this study is
special, in that
it went beyond each of the
individual studies
that we have seen in the past,
and integrated
them all, to put together one
picture out
of all of that detective work.
HARI SREENIVASAN: So, let's talk
a little
bit about impacts.
Take a city like Charleston, a
low-lying city
already that we know is facing
some of these
floods. What's it likely to be
like going
forward, say, to the end of this
century?
BENJAMIN STRAUSS: Well, really,
the sharp
increase in floods caused by us
that we have
seen over the last several
decades is only
just the beginning.
We're a few inches into a
problem that's going
to be measured in feet this
century. And I'm
afraid to say we can expect
floods and flooding
to accelerate a great deal more,
even in the
next two or three decades, than
in the -- than
what we have already seen in the
last two
or three decades.
HARI SREENIVASAN: As we
mentioned, the climate
conferences that happen around
the world,
they're really trying to figure
out this two-degree
Celsius target, but your
forecasts and your
predictions and your models are
showing that
even at two degrees Celsius,
there's a tremendous
amount of increase in sea level
rise, and
a lot of coastal cities are
impacted by this.
BENJAMIN STRAUSS: Yes.
In the long run, two degrees
Celsius warming
probably is not -- a lot of
today's coastal
cities are probably not
compatible with that,
whether you're talking about
Miami or Shanghai
or London.
But two degrees is a great deal
better than
our current path. So there's
some solace in
that. And how quickly sea level
rises will
play a large role in how well we
can adapt.
I would also say that if we can
end up being
more ambitious than two degrees
Celsius and
cut warming down to 1.5 degrees
in the long
run, the impact there would be
about half
of what we could expect from two
degrees Celsius.
So that last half degree makes a
big difference.
HARI SREENIVASAN: This
conversation about
two degrees or a half-a-degree
here or half-a-degree
there, often, it gets mired in
politics, it
gets mired in lifestyle changes,
and you start
thinking globally and different
countries.
I mean, reading your data at
some point is
an incredibly sort of sad and
dire prediction.
Is there any way through this?
BENJAMIN STRAUSS: Yes, well, it
is sad, and
it's a difficult line of work,
in a way.
But I take some solace. First of
all, there's
a lot we can do to adapt and to
deal with
change over time. And I take
some solace in
knowing all people are mortal.
Right? But
we still live our lives. We
still have meaningful
lives.
There are some places on our
coasts now which
we now know are especially
mortal because
of sea level rise. It won't stop
them from
making contributions for the
next decades
or the next century, but, over
time, we're
going to have to either build
tall walls and
live beneath -- you know, in the
bottom very
deep bowls, which is a
frightening prospect,
or else we're going to have the
move.
HARI SREENIVASAN: All right, Ben
Strauss of
Climate Central, thanks so much
for joining
us.
BENJAMIN STRAUSS: Yes, thank
you.
GWEN IFILL: It's been four
decades since a
groundbreaking law known as the
Individuals
with Disabilities Education Act,
IDEA, took
effect. Today, it helps ensure
that more than
six million students with
disabilities have
the right to a free and
appropriate public
education.
But, in many places, it's been a
struggle
getting schools to comply with
the law, and
nearly 100 class-actions have
been filed.
Special correspondent John
Tulenko, with our
partners at Education Week,
follows the impact
of one such case in California.
That's part
of our weekly Tuesday night look
at education,
Making the Grade.
JOHN TULENKO: Los Angeles,
California, is
the nation's second largest
school system.
And like other big cities across
the country,
it's been the site of a pitched
legal battle
over special education.
The story begins in the early
1990s with a
student named Chanda Smith, who
was dyslexic
and by high school could barely
read.
CHANDA SMITH, California: It's
just like a
bunch of words just scribbling
on the paper,
just everything just scribbling
or just -- it
was very overwhelming. My mom
told the teachers
and everything. But after the
third grade,
I never got any help.
JOHN TULENKO: Now 39 and a
mother of four,
Chanda continues to struggle
with a learning
disability.
CHANDA SMITH: It's affected me a
lot. It's
hard for me to get a job. And
I'm always having
big worries, because I have to
take care of
my family. And it's kind of sad
because, when
I have to go up to my
10-year-old, "Can you
read this for mommy?" You know,
I have a grandson
now. I want to be able to read
him a story.
And that's something that I
can't do.
I feel like it's been taken away
from me.
For what reason? So, you know,
it's really
hard and emotional.
DAVID ROSTETTER, Independent
Monitor, Los
Angeles Unified School District:
Chanda was
lost. They hadn't identified
her. They didn't
know where her records were. And
so they weren't
providing adequate -- adequate
service to
her. They were virtually
providing no services
to her.
JOHN TULENKO: Chanda's story was
a familiar
one to David Rostetter. He's a
court-appointed
monitor charged with ensuring
schools in Los
Angeles and elsewhere comply
with special
education laws.
DAVID ROSTETTER: I have had a
lot of superintendents
around the country, I will go to
them and
say, you know, this is really
bad over here.
I mean, this is a budding
lawsuit and it's
patently illegal. And their
answer will actually
be, literally be: "I will deal
with it when
we get sued about it. Thanks for
your advice,
Dave."
JOHN TULENKO: That was the case
for Chanda
Smith. Despite repeated requests
for help,
L.A. Unified did nothing until
1993, when
Chanda's mother took action. A
single case
of neglect turned into a
class-action lawsuit
that exposed a woefully broken
system.
Thousands of students were not
identified
or misidentified. Nearly one
third of all
special education teachers were
unlicensed.
And procedures for tracking
student records
were nonexistent. The lawsuit
pushed Los Angeles
into a settlement agreement,
imposing federal
court oversight until the
problems could be
fixed.
That was nearly 20 years ago.
WOMAN: Good morning to you.
JOHN TULENKO: Today, much has
changed for
the district's 80,000 students
with special
needs. Evaluations for services,
for example,
take less than 90 days.
Most special education teachers
are certified.
Academic performance for
students with disabilities
has improved, and the graduation
rate is up,
although it's still short of the
rate for
students with disabilities
nationwide.
The biggest change, to Sharyn
Howell, who
directs special education
services here, has
been in people's attitudes.
SHARYN HOWELL, Special Education
Director,
Los Angeles Unified School
District: I see
a much different conversation
than I used
to see about our students. And
it really is
about people wanting them to
perform academically
and having expectations for
them.
What we have been working on for
a number
of years is to convince people
that students
with disabilities are all of our
responsibility.
They don't belong to the
Division of Special
Education.
JOHN TULENKO: Most simply need
extra help
and are already in regular
classrooms. Those
with greater needs are just
beginning to make
the transition.
In the last three years, the
district's been
moving these students from 18
special education
centers into neighborhood
schools like Grand
View Elementary.
ALFREDO ORTIZ, Principal, Grand
View Boulevard
Elementary: What used to be two
separate communities,
now we have become one
community, an integrated
community.
JOHN TULENKO: Principal Alfredo
Ortiz has
managed an influx of new
students from the
school next door.
ALFREDO ORTIZ: We have McBride,
which is a
special education center.
JOHN TULENKO: McBride was one of
the schools
exclusively for students with
disabilities.
It was separated by a chain-link
fence.
ALFREDO ORTIZ: And, as you can
tell, the fence
has come down. So now we're one
campus.
JOHN TULENKO: Eighty-nine
students from McBride
and other schools moved into
Grand View, increasing
its special education population
by 50 percent.
Most of the new students spend
the majority
of their day in classes like
Maria Ventura's.
She teaches eight students on
the autism spectrum.
To help develop their social
skills, every
morning, she invites
kindergartners to her
classroom for a shared lesson.
MARIA VENTURA, Special Education
Teacher:
This is circle time. As a
kindergarten teacher,
I used to do that. And so when
becoming special
ed, I collaborated with another
kinder teacher
and said, you know what, bring
me your kids,
so that my kids can use them as
a model.
Now you can't even tell the
difference between
my kids and the gen-ed kids,
because they
have learned by watching their
peers, oh,
this is how I need to sit in a
class.
JOHN TULENKO: Looking around the
room, I noticed
that nearly half the students
with autism
weren't participating.
You're bringing them together,
but maybe they're
still staying apart.
MARIA VENTURA: Well, I can't
force it on them.
It's basically their demeanor
and how they
do it. For example, Sean and
Austin and Marigold,
they're much more open to
change. Depending
on David's temperament, if he's
not having
a good day, I don't want to
force it. We slowly
bring them in when they're
ready, because,
if we rush them, then it
actually goes against
what we're trying to do. We
wanted to make
a good experience for them.
JOHN TULENKO: Right.
MARIA VENTURA: Yes.
JOHN TULENKO: So it takes time.
MARIA VENTURA: Exactly. It does
take time.
JOHN TULENKO: However, Grand
View's elective
classes are fully integrated,
including physical
education, gardening and
cooking. All this
has been a huge transition for
teachers.
ROSALIND BERGSTROM, Kindergarten
Teacher:
To meet everyone's need, you
know, it is -- it's
a lot of work. But we have a
physical therapist,
occupational therapist, speech
therapist.
And I work with the resource
teacher to meet
their needs.
JOHN TULENKO: But it seemed some
teachers
were having to spend most of
their time focusing
on the students with
disabilities.
DAVID ROSTETTER: Yes, there are
kids who demand
extraordinary instructional
time. And one
of the problems that L.A. is
experiencing
is a lot of these regular
education teachers
and special education teachers
are just learning
how you do integration.
JOHN TULENKO: It's still a work
in progress,
but principal Ortiz says he's
seeing the benefits.
ALFREDO ORTIZ: It's amazing how
the kids,
their interactions have evolved.
If a child
needs help, we have gen-ed kids
who say, hey
I will take you, I will go with
you. It's
creating leadership.
JOHN TULENKO: Seeing all these
children playing
together was undeniably unique.
I have never seen anything like
that.
DAVID ROSTETTER: That is a
fundamental statement.
You never saw anything like that
because you
didn't grow up and go to a
school where that
occurred. Socially, people with
disabilities,
particularly people with
physical disabilities
have been erased from our
environment.
And so now these kids are going
to grow up
with each other. And they're
going to make
friends with each other. And,
hopefully, we
will end up with a group of kids
as they go
into middle school and high
school expect
to be with each other.
JOHN TULENKO: But not everyone's
happy with
the changes.
Brandon, can tell me whether you
understand
me?
Brandon Buschini is one of the
few students
still attending dedicated
special education
centers. His mother is fighting
any plans
to move him.
LINDA HILTON, Mother: The
district tells parents
that this is still a gift for
their child
and that they should be
included, and that
this is -- socializing them is
important.
And they really hang their hat
on that, vs.
educating them and providing
what they really
need.
JOHN TULENKO: In our next
report, fears about
including students with the
greatest needs
and the unfinished business of
fixing special
education in Los Angeles.
I'm John Tulenko of Education
Week, reporting
for the "PBS NewsHour."
GWEN IFILL: Now to the problem
of opioid abuse
and proposals by governors to
tackle it.
Judy Woodruff has the story.
JUDY WOODRUFF: The dimension of
the problem
is becoming ever larger. The
federal government
reported that opioids, which
includes prescription
painkillers and heroin, were
involved in more
than 28,000 deaths in the U.S.
in 2014.
This past week, leading voices
at the National
Governors Association called for
new limits
for some painkillers like
OxyContin and for
greater drug monitoring of those
prescription
drugs.
The epidemic has hit a number of
states very
hard, including Massachusetts,
where more
than 1,200 people died of opiate
overdoses
in 2014.
Governor Charlie Baker has
proposed legislation
that would limit practitioners
from prescribing
more than three days' worth of
opiates to
patients when they're using them
for the first
time. Governor Baker also is the
head of the
Health Committee for the
Governors Association,
and he joins me now.
And thank you for being here.
How did this get to be such a
high priority
for you, Governor Baker?
GOV. CHARLIE BAKER (R),
Massachusetts: Well,
when I was campaigning for
governor in 2014,
I literally couldn't go anywhere
without somebody
having a story to tell me about
this.
And all the stories were for the
most part
stories that ended tragically,
in the death
of a family member or a close
friend or a
co-worker.
And you hear this enough over
and over and
over again, and you start to
realize that
it's just everywhere. And I --
when I took
office, I talked about this in
my inaugural
address and said, you know, we
have more people
dying of opioid overdoses in
Massachusetts
than car accidents and gunshots
combined,
four people a day. There has to
be a better
way here.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And you're
proposing a number
of things to do about this in
your state and
through the Governors
Association.
A big part of that is this --
what we just
mentioned, limiting to three
days the prescription.
How did you decide on three days
vs. two days
or four days or more?
GOV. CHARLIE BAKER: Well, the --
first of
all, the overall proposal -- and
we have a
good working relationship with
our legislature
on this.
And I think they have already
done two separate
bills on this, and I believe
they will do
a third. But it's a prevention
and education
piece, an intervention piece, a
treatment
piece, and recovery piece. You
got to -- our
view is, you got to do all of
them.
But on the prevention and
education piece,
we picked three days for first
prescriptions,
sort of acute pain, you have a
wisdom tooth
out, you break a finger,
something like that.
Our approach to this was to take
the CDC preliminary
recommendation, which was three
days.
Now, the Mass Medical Society,
after we proposed
three days, proposed seven.
JUDY WOODRUFF: This is your
state society.
GOV. CHARLIE BAKER: Correct.
And that seven-day proposal
ended up in the
House version of the bill.
They're now conferencing
the two of them. But my guess
is, we will
end up with some sort of a limit
on first
prescriptions, which I think is
a good thing.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Then, I saw the
American Medical
Association, which is the
national organization,
is saying -- I read their
statement today.
They're saying it's arbitrary,
and surrounding
circumstances are clinically
vague. They say,
how do you define major surgery?
In other words, they're raising
some questions
about the three days.
GOV. CHARLIE BAKER: Well, I
think whether
it's the CDC three days or the
seven days,
Mass Medical Society, my view on
this is,
we need to separate acute pain
from chronic
pain.
There's no reason to give
somebody who has
their wisdom teeth out 30 pills.
There's no
reason to give somebody who has
a minor procedure
60 pills. The stories about this
that I heard
as I travel, still, as I travel
around the
commonwealth are overwhelming.
It's like an
avalanche.
Remember, 5 percent of the
world's population
in the U.S. We consume 80
percent of the world's
opioids. There's something that
is inherently
not right about that.
JUDY WOODRUFF: What are you
hearing back right
now from the pharmaceutical
industry and from
the medical community broadly?
GOV. CHARLIE BAKER: Well, the
interesting
thing is, you know, most of the
practicing
docs I talk to -- and I talk to
a lot of them
-- tell me that they believe
having some limit
on first prescriptions is a good
idea.
The dentists I know feel the
same way. And,
in fact, we got the medical
schools in Massachusetts
and the dental schools to
incorporate for
the first time a core
requirement that, for
graduation, you have to pass a
class in pain
management and addiction, which
has never
been true before.
There's a lot of interest in
this issue and
a lot of belief that something
needs to be
done on the part of the health
care community.
JUDY WOODRUFF: I saw that
President Obama,
that the White House said that
the president
had declined to endorse the
Governors Association
proposal. He said words to the
effect, limiting
prescriptions should be part of
a comprehensive
approach, that, sometimes --
painkillers are
sometimes, he said, the only
realistic treatment
option for people in rural
communities.
What about that?
GOV. CHARLIE BAKER: Well, I
think his overarching
notion of it being part of a
comprehensive
plan is correct.
Ours is prevention, education,
intervention,
treatment, and recovery. I think
you got to
play with all those. But he also
said at this
meeting -- and I thought this
was an interesting
perspective as well. He said,
states are many
times the laboratories of
democracy. You folks
should try a variety of
different solutions,
and if you come up with
something that ends
up becoming kind of the standard
around the
country and a whole bunch of
states, then
we, the federal government,
might choose to
just follow you, which I think
is fine.
JUDY WOODRUFF: You mentioned
other legs to
the stool.
What about the provisions to
educate and train
doctors, physicians,
differently?
GOV. CHARLIE BAKER: I think
that's a big part
of it.
I hear from doctors all the time
who tell
me that they don't necessarily
feel they have
had the training that they
should have on
this. And most -- you know, the
three biggest
prescribing groups currently can
graduate
from medical school without ever
taking a
course in pain management.
There is no requirement that you
take a course
in pain management as an
in-service part of
your continuing education as a
physician.
We're trying to change that in
Massachusetts.
I mean, this is a very
complicated issue.
I get that. But I think the more
we can do
to create an opportunity for
both existing
soon-to-be doctors and dentists
and nurses
and physician assistants and
current ones
to get smarter about this, we
should take.
JUDY WOODRUFF: What about the
other part of
the argument, Governor Baker,
that so much
of narcotic abuse, opiate abuse
is on the
part of people who just are
stealing drugs,
who just are addicts, and they
didn't get
into it because of a bad
prescription, but
they have fallen into it and
there need to
be other methods to get to them?
GOV. CHARLIE BAKER: Well, I
certainly think
treatment and recovery are a big
part of this,
and that we need to treat this
as a public
health issue, and in many cases
for the disease
that it is.
And there are a whole series of
elements in
what we're doing already in
Massachusetts
and what we're proposing to do
going forward
that factor into that as well.
We're also working with a bunch
of the local
pharmacies to make sure that
they have drop
boxes and where people can take
unused medicine
back and deposit it safely.
There's no silver bullet to
this, but I also
believe that we will never
change this 25
percent per year increase in
deaths, prescriptions
and overdoses unless we do some
things to
disrupt this trend line. And I
think you got
to bring every tool to the table
here, prevention,
education, treatment, recovery,
and intervention.
And if you're not willing to
chase all that
stuff in a pretty serious way,
it's probably
not going to get any better. I
know I'm not
going to consider success to be
taking the
increase in deaths from 25
percent to 20.
I want to take that number. I
want to flatten
the number out and start to
drive it in the
opposite direction.
Too many people are losing too
many people.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Massachusetts
Governor Charlie
Baker, we thank you.
GOV. CHARLIE BAKER: Thank you.
GWEN IFILL: And you can tune in
later tonight
for "Frontline"'s two-hour
documentary "Chasing
Heroin." It paints a larger
picture of opioid
abuse, from pharmaceutical
companies' push
to popularize painkillers, to
personal stories
of heroin addiction. Check your
local listings
for the time.
Finally tonight: A dance company
steeped in
tradition takes bold new steps,
and finds
direction under a new leader.
Jeffrey Brown has our look.
JEFFREY BROWN: "Revelations," a
dance set
to gospel songs and spirituals,
over five
decades, it's become an American
classic,
and still the showpiece of the
renowned Alvin
Ailey American Dance Theater.
It's opened
the eyes and minds of many,
including, in
the 1980s, a teenager living in
one of Miami's
poorest neighborhoods.
ROBERT BATTLE, Artistic
Director, Alvin Ailey
American Dance Theater: I saw
myself. I saw
possibility. Although the
curtain went down,
I went up.
JEFFREY BROWN: Years later,
Robert Battle
heads the company that helped
change his own
life.
How did you see your task when
you took over
the company?
ROBERT BATTLE: Wow. That's just
to survive.
JEFFREY BROWN: First survive.
ROBERT BATTLE: First survive.
JEFFREY BROWN: Battle is just
the third leader
of a company that was founded by
Alvin Ailey
in 1958 as a troupe celebrating
African-American
culture, and then led to even
greater international
heights by Judith Jamison, a
renowned dancer
in the company who was tapped by
Ailey to
take over.
Five years ago, Jamison picked
Battle to replace
her.
ROBERT BATTLE: I think she
thought that this
was right for the company, that
I would sort
of push the boundaries of what
people thought
was possible.
JEFFREY BROWN: In his prominent
new role,
Battle has opened up about his
own boundary-pushing,
including in a new children's
book. He barely
knew his birth mother, was taken
in by an
uncle and aunt and raised by a
cousin.
He was severely bow-legged as a
child and
wore metal knee braces until he
was 6. Bullied
in his dangerous Liberty City
neighborhood,
he turned to martial arts for
confidence,
and then, and forevermore, to
the arts, music
and then dance.
ROBERT BATTLE: Sometimes, I
think young people
see people in certain successful
positions,
and they think, I don't have the
tools for
that.
And what I'm saying is, you do
have the tools
for that.
JEFFREY BROWN: What made you
think you did,
when you look back at that young
child you
were?
ROBERT BATTLE: I don't know. I
always felt
that I was guided. I always felt
this sort
of maybe -- some people would
call it this
third eye. I always felt that
the sense that
I was looking down over myself
within the
context of the rest of the
world.
And so I had this sense that I
was supposed
to do something. I remember that
early on,
from growing up in church,
watching the preacher
preach. And something about
that, and watching
the rest of the congregation
respond and be
uplifted, I wanted to do
something like that.
In fact, I used to imitate the
preacher. I
would put on my bathrobe at
home.
My great uncle would always tape
the services,
and I would learn the sermon.
JEFFREY BROWN: Really?
ROBERT BATTLE: Yes.
JEFFREY BROWN: Leading the
congregation, but
also the performative side to
that as well
clearly attracted you.
ROBERT BATTLE: Yes. Yes. Yes.
And what's interesting, and the
flip side
is, I was painfully shy. I
didn't like school
because I didn't like being sort
of an extrovert.
But when I took on these sort of
roles, I
could be bold.
JEFFREY BROWN: I'm thinking of
the child wearing
the leg braces, right, to
straighten your
legs, and then dance.
ROBERT BATTLE: Yes. Yes. And it
comes from
the restriction, and then...
JEFFREY BROWN: Take the braces
off and start
going.
ROBERT BATTLE: Yes, yes. It's
not enough to
walk. You have to run, leap
even.
Often, when young people say to
me, you know,
I want to be a dancer, I want to
be like that,
I said, well, start where you
are, start exactly
where you are. If you want to be
a dancer,
consider yourself a dancer, and
move from
that space. Your imagination
costs you nothing,
but can cost you everything if
you don't use
it.
JEFFREY BROWN: Fast forward, the
problem is
how to leap into the future
while holding
onto the past.
Battle is doing this by bringing
new dances
to the company from a varied
group of choreographers,
including recently at
Washington's Kennedy
Center Ronald Brown's "Open
Door," a vibrant
Latin jazz romp, and a very
different dance
choreographed by Battle himself,
titled "No
Longer Silent," set to the music
of Erwin
Schulhoff, a German composer who
was silenced
and then killed by the Nazis.
ROBERT BATTLE: Sometimes, I feel
a little
bit of guilt when I go to take
my seat in
the back of the theater to watch
the audience
consume this work.
JEFFREY BROWN: Guilt?
ROBERT BATTLE: yes, because I
don't want to
bring them down, you know?
JEFFREY BROWN: Are you also a
little afraid
of how they're going to accept
it?
ROBERT BATTLE: Yes. Yes. And I'm
very sensitive
to that. I see everything when
I'm sitting
in the back of the house. I can
see if somebody's,
like, looking down at their
phone, or somebody's
tilting their head not in a way
of interest,
but in a way of saying, what's
going on up
there?
JEFFREY BROWN: You really sit
back there and
watch for this?
ROBERT BATTLE: I try not to, but
I can't help
it.
JEFFREY BROWN: Yes. But this
goes back to
what we were talking about
earlier, where
you have got an audience, you
have got a tradition.
But you're also -- you feel it's
important
to give them something else.
ROBERT BATTLE: Yes, definitely.
Definitely.
And I have to make my own
statement about
how I see the world. I have to.
In some ways,
I would rather be silent.
When I was a kid, I had a high
speaking voice.
And so every time I said
anything, people
would laugh, you know, the other
students.
He talks like a girl, you know?
So, I didn't
want to talk in front of people.
I'm still that person. But what
I know is,
it is necessary, that I'm here
for a reason,
to tell stories that celebrate
our common
humanity.
JEFFREY BROWN: Robert Battle
says his newest
dance, the first he's
choreographed since
taking over the company,
reflects part of
his own story. He calls it
"Awakening."
The Alvin Ailey American Dance
Theater is
now in the midst of a 20-city
North American
tour running through May.
For the "PBS NewsHour," I'm
Jeffrey Brown.
GWEN IFILL: You can hear more
from Robert
Battle about the connection
between dance,
history and contemporary social
issues on
our Art Beat page. That's on our
Web site,
PBS.org/NewsHour.
On the "NewsHour" online: Our
jobs guru follows
up on a column he wrote about
employers rescinding
job offers. It led one reader to
ask, is it
ever advisable to quit without
giving notice?
Read this week's Ask the
Headhunter for everything
you should consider when leaving
your job.
That's on our home page,
PBS.org/NewsHour.
And that's the "NewsHour" for
tonight. I'm
Gwen Ifill.
Join us online and again here
tomorrow evening.
For all of us here at the "PBS
NewsHour,"
thank you, and good night.